This repository contains the code for 2 models (currently) that have been trained with the goal of discovering novel drug molecules. The first is modeled after the paper "Predicting Drug–Target Interaction Using a Novel Graph Neural Networkwith 3D Structure-Embedded Graph Representation". The architecture introduces a "distance-aware graph attention algorithm to differentiate various type sof intermolecular interactions. Furthermore, [they] extract the graph feature of intermolecular interactions directly from the 3D structural information on the protein-ligand binging pose." I trained the model using Google Colab and showed promising results--however, I could not efficiently obtain protein-ligand docking posesin the for mwhich the model was trained on, so screening thousands of ligands against a protein conformation was not feasible with my computational resources. HTE experiments from a lab would be very useful here.

As a result, I tried a different approach, drawing inspiration from "Deep generative model for drug design from protein target sequence." They propose a 3-module architecture which conditions the generation of a ligand SMILES sequence on anamino acid input. I was able to follow closely until their use of a large heteroencoder, used to decode the latent representation of a protein into a SMILES string. Due to extremely long training times on both Colab and SageMaker, I have explored other opportunities in fine-tuning this model, including the training of the WGan. Thus, for now, the molecules generated are not closely resembling trueligands conditioned on some protein sequence, but this is a work in progress.

I am currently exploring other models that do not require extensive experimentaldata/docking algorithms for ligand generation, and once this is accomplished I will benchmark the generated compounds with MOSES or some other accepted format.

Sources: 
